That's it for this module. It was quite a lot, a lot about middleware I guess but it is the crucial basis
for the rest of the course where we will of course continue with nodejs
but by using expressjs, a powerful framework and that is what expressjs is. It's a nodejs
framework,
so you still use nodejs,
we for example still use the path core module in this module but you build up on it and get a bunch of
utility functions and a clear set of rules on how you should structure your app and it's all about middleware
and understanding that flow of requests through all the middleware functions. Expressjs is very
popular because it's highly extensible
and as you already saw with the body parser in this module, you can easily plug some packages, a lot of
packages actually into an express app because they just expose such middleware functions and you can
therefore easily add them and the request gets funneled through them.
Now that concept of middleware is really important, middleware functions are these functions that took the
request object, a response object that helped you with sending a response and that next argument which turns
out to be a function you should call to forward a request to the next middleware in line and in line
means from top to bottom in your root file.
This is a crucial point you have to understand, that you should always call next unless you are sending
a response in which case you should never call next and that you can therefore cleverly structure
your middleware to transform a request, read something from it and send different responses depending
on the route you're accessing,
so depending on the path and method you're sending. You learned that you can filter request by path and
method easily with app use by adding a path or app get, app post
and that if you filter by method, like if you had app get, that the paths would then be matched exactly
otherwise with app use, the path you passed would only be matched with the beginning of the
url, the part after localhost.
You also can use the express router package instead of app use, app get because this allows you to elegantly
split your routes across multiple files since the router you export there can be added as a middleware
function into app use in your root file.
Last but not least, we also served some files and it's important to know that you're not limited to serving
dummy text or anything like that,
you can send files for example as we did it with html files and if a request is directly made for a file
like a css or javascript file but also images
even though we didn't see that in this module, you can enable static serving for such files with the
help of express static which is a crucial part of any web application you're building because you typically
have such files that are dependencies of your html files for example and this is the core basic
knowledge you should have about expressjs,
this is what we'll now build up on and this is where we will now dive deeper into to learn how to
render dynamic content, how to access databases, enable authentication, manage data on the server and
so much more.
So let's continue.